.TH LSBOUNCED 8l "28th April 2015 r1.46
.SH NAME
.B lsbounced
- lists the original addressees of returned e-mail.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBlsbounced\fR
[[\fB-c \fI<cc_addr>\fR]
[\fB-d\fR]
[\fB-L \fI<mail_box_directory>\fR]
[\fB-l \fR]
[\fB-r \fI<e-mail_recipient>\fR]
[\fB-s \fR]
[\fB-v \fR]
[\fB-x \fI<xclude_addr>\fR]
\fI<mailbox>\fR] |
[\fB-V \fR]
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lsbounced
is a Bourne shell script which should work equally well on all versions of UNIX,
Linux and Mac OS X.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This utility was written for a company which was receiving a substantial amount of
bounced email after each mailout to it's clienT list.
.LP
.B lsbounced
uses "\fBssh\fR"
to connect to an IMAP server and collects the addresses found in the nominated
mailbox using the local the file system. (NB. It is not possible to just use the
"From:" address as this is usually the recipient mail hosts "postmaster".) 
.LP
The addresses are cleaned up using
"\fBsed\fR" and turned into a sorted list of unique addresses.
The utility optionally formats the list using "\fBgroff\fR" and "\fBghostview\fR"
to produce a "pdf" file which can be presented on screen and e-mailed  to
specified recipients.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\fB-c \fI<cc_mail_address>\fR
The 
.B -c
option is used to add 
.I cc
 addresses to which a copies of the report sent with the
.B -r
option should be sent. This may be a single address or a comma separated list.
The option is only relevant when the 
.B -r option is also used. 
.TP 5
.B -d
Set debug mode on. 
The \fB-x\fR option is set within the shell
and each command in the script is echoed to the console.
.TP 5
\fB-L \fI<directory>\fR
The directory under which the mail messages are stored. 
"\fBlsbounced\fR" expects that the "\fBCourier\fR" imap server is being used with
virtual mailboxes and that each message is in a separate file.
.TP 5
.B -l
Use the local syslog facility to log that 
.B lsbounced
has been run and record the number of messages found and the number of unique address
extracted.
.TP 5
\fB-r \fI<recipient_addr>\fR
Send out the list with a covering letter to  the \fI<recipient_addr>\fR.
.TP 5
\fB-s\fR
Use "\fBgv\fR" to show the list on screen in pdf format.
.TP 5
.B -v
Set verbose mode on. (Frankly verbose is somewhat of an exageration).
.TP 5
.I <mailbox>
The mail account to be examined.
.TP 5
.B -V
Print the version details and exit.
.SH FILES
.I /var/qmail/mailnames/<mail_domain>/<virtual_user_name>/Maildir/{cur,new}
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.ft CW
lsbounced -s -r fulford@fulford.net -L /var/qmail/mailnames bounced.westbridgford.ingo
.ft R
.LP
Use 
.B ssh
to access 
.IR mailserver.neg.uk .
Count then number of message file in the directories
 /var/qmail/mailnames/westbridgford.info/Maildir/{cur,new}.
Pass the messages through
.B awk
and
.B sed
filters to extract the original mail addresses to which the bounced messages were
sent.
.LP
Use
.B groff
and 
.B ps2pdf
to format the results and present a pdf file to screen. Send a copy of the report
to 
.IR fulford@fulford.net .
.SH BUGS
The script is quite crude and has very little, if any,  error checking.
The consequences of unexpected input are untested.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR chkmail ,
.IR msg_cnt ,
.IR msg_del .
.SH AUTHOR
Clifford W Fulford, City Linux. Contact fulford@fulford.net or +44 (0)709 229 5385.
.SH HISTORY
